---
title: "home"
bg: white
color: black
style: center
---

# *Scope*
{: .text-black}

Since a long time, interfaces available for programming remain mostly unchanged. Usually, software engineers (SE) interact with IDEs through text-based interfaces displayed on a computer screen. Software visualization (SOFTVIS) researchers investigate the use of visual properties to support software engineering tasks such as programming. Some of these software visualizations have explored the use of VR/AR immersive environments.User studies that analyzed the impact of displaying visualizations in such immersive environments have shown preliminary results of positive effects on developers’ user experience. The inherently artistic value of visualizations can be a reason of boosting user experience, which could lead to an improved user performance.

NIP ’20 aims at gathering experts from(i)the SE community,(ii) the SOFTVIS community, (iii) the VR/AR community, and (iv) the Arts community in order to breed cross-community new interfaces that supporting programming tasks.  The workshop shall provide a forum for researchers and practitioners from these mostly disconnected research communities. The participants shall learn about the latest developments in their own as well as adjacent research areas. The seminar shall foster interaction among the participants and establish collaborations between them.

The proposed workshop shall be full day and feature: (i) one invited keynote talk,(ii) paper talks (15+5 min),(iii) lightning presentations (10 min), (iv) a panel discussion.  We will form a program committee in order to perform a peer-review of the submissions. Accepted submissions will be presented during the workshop day.